docs/source/supported_architectures.mdx, before:

<!---
Copyright 2024 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Supported architectures

## Training

Training a model on a Trainium instance requires:

    1. A model that can be compiled with the Neuron SDK.
    2. Either that:
        * The model is small enough to fit everything that is needed (model, gradients, optimizer states, activations) on one accelerator (16GB of memory per accelerator),
        * Or there is a custom modeling implementation adding support for tensor-parallelism and/or pipeline-parallelism for this model architecture in Optimum Neuron.

The following table lists the architectures and tasks with a custom modeling implementation that Optimum Neuron supports for training on Amazon EC2 Trn1 instances.

| Architecture             | Task            | Tensor Parallelism | Pipeline Parallelism | Expert Parallelism   |
|--------------------------|-----------------|--------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| Llama, Llama 2, Llama 3  | text-generation | ✓                  | ✓                    | N/A                  |
| Qwen3                    | text-generation | ✓                  | ✓                    | N/A                  |
| Granite                  | text-generation | ✓                  | ✗                    | N/A                  |



## Inference

The following table lists the architectures and tasks that Optimum Neuron supports for inference on Amazon EC2 Inf2 instances. 

<Tip>

If a LLM is listed, e.g. a model with a `text-generation` task, it means that there is also [TGI](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/en/index) support for it.

</Tip>

### Transformers

| Architecture              | Task                                                                                                                                          |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ALBERT                    | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| AST                       | feature-extraction, audio-classification                                                                                                      |
| BERT                      | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Beit                      | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| CamemBERT                 | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| CLIP                      | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| ConvBERT                  | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| ConvNext                  | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| ConvNextV2                | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| CvT                       | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| DeBERTa (INF2 only)       | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| DeBERTa-v2 (INF2 only)    | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Deit                      | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| DistilBERT                | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| DonutSwin                 | feature-extraction                                                                                                                            |
| Dpt                       | feature-extraction                                                                                                                            |
| ELECTRA                   | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| ESM                       | feature-extraction, fill-mask, text-classification, token-classification                                                                      |
| FlauBERT                  | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Granite                   | text-generation                                                                                                                               |
| Hubert                    | feature-extraction, automatic-speech-recognition, audio-classification                                                                        |
| Levit                     | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| Llama, Llama 2, Llama 3   | text-generation                                                                                                                               |
| Mixtral                   | text-generation                                                                                                                               |
| MobileBERT                | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| MobileNetV2               | feature-extraction, image-classification, semantic-segmentation                                                                               |
| MobileViT                 | feature-extraction, image-classification, semantic-segmentation                                                                               |
| ModernBERT                | feature-extraction, fill-mask, text-classification, token-classification                                                                      |
| MPNet                     | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Phi3                      | text-generation                                                                                 |
| Phi                       | feature-extraction, text-classification, token-classification                                                                                 |
| Qwen2                     | text-generation                                                                                 |
| RoBERTa                   | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| RoFormer                  | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Swin                      | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| T5                        | text2text-generation                                                                                                                          |
| UniSpeech                 | feature-extraction, automatic-speech-recognition, audio-classification                                                                        |
| UniSpeech-SAT             | feature-extraction, automatic-speech-recognition, audio-classification, audio-frame-classification, audio-xvector                             |
| ViT                       | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| Wav2Vec2                  | feature-extraction, automatic-speech-recognition, audio-classification, audio-frame-classification, audio-xvector                             |
| WavLM                     | feature-extraction, automatic-speech-recognition, audio-classification, audio-frame-classification, audio-xvector                             |
| Whisper                   | automatic-speech-recognition                                                                                                                  |
| XLM                       | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| XLM-RoBERTa               | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Yolos                     | feature-extraction, object-detection                                                                                                          |


### Diffusers

| Architecture                  | Task                                                                                                                                   |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Stable Diffusion              | text-to-image, image-to-image, inpaint                                                                                                 |
| Stable Diffusion XL Base      | text-to-image, image-to-image, inpaint                                                                                                 |
| Stable Diffusion XL Refiner   | image-to-image, inpaint                                                                                                                |
| SDXL Turbo                    | text-to-image, image-to-image, inpaint                                                                                                 |
| LCM                           | text-to-image                                                                                                                          |
| PixArt-α                      | text-to-image                                                                                                                          |
| PixArt-Σ                      | text-to-image                                                                                                                          |

### Sentence Transformers

| Architecture                  | Task                                                                                                                                   |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Transformer                   | feature-extraction, sentence-similarity                                                                                                |
| CLIP                          | feature-extraction, zero-shot-image-classification                                                                                     |


<Tip>

 To learn how to export a model for inference, you can check this [guide](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum-neuron/guides/export_model#selecting-a-task).

</Tip>

Commit message:

docs: improve wording of the training section in the supported architectures page

docs/source/supported_architectures.mdx, after:

<!---
Copyright 2024 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Supported architectures

## Training

Training on AWS Trainium instances (Trn1) enables large-scale model training with distributed parallelism strategies.

**Requirements:**
- Model must be compatible with the Neuron SDK (if small enough to fit in 16GB, training is supported for any architecture that can be compiled)
- **Memory constraint:** Each accelerator has 16GB memory for model weights, gradients, optimizer states, and activations
- **For large models:** Custom modeling implementation with tensor parallelism and/or pipeline parallelism support is required

The following architectures have custom modeling implementations with distributed training support:

| Architecture             | Task            | Tensor Parallelism | Pipeline Parallelism | Expert Parallelism   |
|--------------------------|-----------------|--------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| Llama, Llama 2, Llama 3  | text-generation | ✓                  | ✓                    | N/A                  |
| Qwen3                    | text-generation | ✓                  | ✓                    | N/A                  |
| Granite                  | text-generation | ✓                  | ✗                    | N/A                  |



## Inference

The following table lists the architectures and tasks that Optimum Neuron supports for inference on Amazon EC2 Inf2 instances. 

<Tip>

If a LLM is listed, e.g. a model with a `text-generation` task, it means that there is also [TGI](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/en/index) support for it.

</Tip>

### Transformers

| Architecture              | Task                                                                                                                                          |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ALBERT                    | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| AST                       | feature-extraction, audio-classification                                                                                                      |
| BERT                      | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Beit                      | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| CamemBERT                 | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| CLIP                      | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| ConvBERT                  | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| ConvNext                  | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| ConvNextV2                | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| CvT                       | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| DeBERTa (INF2 only)       | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| DeBERTa-v2 (INF2 only)    | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Deit                      | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| DistilBERT                | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| DonutSwin                 | feature-extraction                                                                                                                            |
| Dpt                       | feature-extraction                                                                                                                            |
| ELECTRA                   | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| ESM                       | feature-extraction, fill-mask, text-classification, token-classification                                                                      |
| FlauBERT                  | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Granite                   | text-generation                                                                                                                               |
| Hubert                    | feature-extraction, automatic-speech-recognition, audio-classification                                                                        |
| Levit                     | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| Llama, Llama 2, Llama 3   | text-generation                                                                                                                               |
| Mixtral                   | text-generation                                                                                                                               |
| MobileBERT                | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| MobileNetV2               | feature-extraction, image-classification, semantic-segmentation                                                                               |
| MobileViT                 | feature-extraction, image-classification, semantic-segmentation                                                                               |
| ModernBERT                | feature-extraction, fill-mask, text-classification, token-classification                                                                      |
| MPNet                     | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Phi3                      | text-generation                                                                                 |
| Phi                       | feature-extraction, text-classification, token-classification                                                                                 |
| Qwen2                     | text-generation                                                                                 |
| RoBERTa                   | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| RoFormer                  | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Swin                      | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| T5                        | text2text-generation                                                                                                                          |
| UniSpeech                 | feature-extraction, automatic-speech-recognition, audio-classification                                                                        |
| UniSpeech-SAT             | feature-extraction, automatic-speech-recognition, audio-classification, audio-frame-classification, audio-xvector                             |
| ViT                       | feature-extraction, image-classification                                                                                                      |
| Wav2Vec2                  | feature-extraction, automatic-speech-recognition, audio-classification, audio-frame-classification, audio-xvector                             |
| WavLM                     | feature-extraction, automatic-speech-recognition, audio-classification, audio-frame-classification, audio-xvector                             |
| Whisper                   | automatic-speech-recognition                                                                                                                  |
| XLM                       | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| XLM-RoBERTa               | feature-extraction, fill-mask, multiple-choice, question-answering, text-classification, token-classification                                 |
| Yolos                     | feature-extraction, object-detection                                                                                                          |


### Diffusers

| Architecture                  | Task                                                                                                                                   |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Stable Diffusion              | text-to-image, image-to-image, inpaint                                                                                                 |
| Stable Diffusion XL Base      | text-to-image, image-to-image, inpaint                                                                                                 |
| Stable Diffusion XL Refiner   | image-to-image, inpaint                                                                                                                |
| SDXL Turbo                    | text-to-image, image-to-image, inpaint                                                                                                 |
| LCM                           | text-to-image                                                                                                                          |
| PixArt-α                      | text-to-image                                                                                                                          |
| PixArt-Σ                      | text-to-image                                                                                                                          |

### Sentence Transformers

| Architecture                  | Task                                                                                                                                   |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Transformer                   | feature-extraction, sentence-similarity                                                                                                |
| CLIP                          | feature-extraction, zero-shot-image-classification                                                                                     |


<Tip>

 To learn how to export a model for inference, you can check this [guide](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum-neuron/guides/export_model#selecting-a-task).

</Tip>
