Hugging Face Optimized Inference License 1.0 (HFOILv1.0)


This License Agreement governs the use of the Software and its Modifications. It is a
binding agreement between the Licensor and You.

This License Agreement shall be referred to as Hugging Face Optimized Inference License
1.0 or HFOILv1.0. We may publish revised versions of this License Agreement from time to
time. Each version will be given a distinguished number.

By downloading, accessing, modifying, distributing or otherwise using the Software, You
consent to all of the terms and conditions below. So, if You do not agree with those,
please do not download, access, modify, distribute, or use the Software.


1. PERMISSIONS

You may use, modify and distribute the Software pursuant to the following terms and
conditions:

Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement and where
and as applicable, each Contributor hereby grants You a perpetual, worldwide,
non-exclusive, royalty-free, copyright license to reproduce, prepare, publicly display,
publicly perform, sublicense under the terms herein, and distribute the Software and
Modifications of the Software.

Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement and where
and as applicable, each Contributor hereby grants You a perpetual, worldwide,
non-exclusive, royalty-free patent license to make, have made, Use, offer to sell, sell,
import, and otherwise transfer the Software, where such license applies only to those
patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Software to
which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any
entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Software
or a Contribution incorporated within the Software constitutes direct or contributory
patent infringement, then any rights granted to You under this License Agreement for the
Software shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

No other rights. All rights not expressly granted herein are retained.


2. RESTRICTIONS

You may not distribute the Software as a hosted or managed, and paid service, where the
service grants users access to any substantial set of the features or functionality of the
Software. If you wish to do so, You will need to be granted additional rights from the
Licensor which will be subject to a separate mutually agreed agreement.

You may not sublicense the Software under any other terms than those listed in this
License.


3. OBLIGATIONS

When You modify the Software, You agree to: - attach a notice stating the Modifications of
the Software You made; and - attach a notice stating that the Modifications of the
Software are released under this License Agreement.

When You distribute the Software or Modifications of the Software, You agree to: - give
any recipients of the Software a copy of this License Agreement; - retain all Explanatory
Documentation; and if sharing the Modifications of the Software, add Explanatory
Documentation documenting the changes made to create the Modifications of the Software; -
retain all copyright, patent, trademark and attribution notices.


4. MISCELLANEOUS

Termination. Licensor reserves the right to restrict Use of the Software in violation of
this License Agreement, upon which Your licenses will automatically terminate.

Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally
submitted for inclusion in the Software by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms
and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any
separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such
Contributions.

Trademarks and related. Nothing in this License Agreement permits You (i) to make Use of
Licensors’ trademarks, trade names, or logos, (ii) otherwise suggest endorsement by
Licensor, or (iii) misrepresent the relationship between the parties; and any rights not
expressly granted herein are reserved by the Licensors.

Output You generate. Licensor claims no rights in the Output. You agree not to contravene
any provision as stated in the License Agreement with your Use of the Output.

Disclaimer of Warranty. Except as expressly provided otherwise herein, and to the fullest
extent permitted by law, Licensor provides the Software (and each Contributor provides its
Contributions) AS IS, and Licensor disclaims all warranties or guarantees of any kind,
express or implied, whether arising under any law or from any usage in trade, or otherwise
including but not limited to the implied warranties of merchantability, non-infringement,
quiet enjoyment, fitness for a particular purpose, or otherwise. You are solely
responsible for determining the appropriateness of the Software and Modifications of the
Software for your purposes (including your use or distribution of the Software and
Modifications of the Software), and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of
permissions under this License Agreement.

Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including
negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate
and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to
You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential
damages of any character arising as a result of this License Agreement or out of the Use
or inability to Use the Software (including but not limited to damages for loss of
goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, model failure or malfunction, or
any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised
of the possibility of such damages.

Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While sharing the Software or Modifications of
the Software thereof, You may choose to offer and charge a fee for, acceptance of support,
warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
License Agreement. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own
behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of Licensor or any other
Contributor, and you hereby agree to indemnify, defend, and hold Licensor and each other
Contributor (and their successors or assigns) harmless for any liability incurred by, or
claims asserted against, such Licensor or Contributor (and their successors or assigns) by
reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

Severability. This License Agreement is a license of copyright and patent rights and an
agreement in contract between You and the Licensor. If any provision of this License
Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall
be unaffected thereby and remain valid as if such provision had not been set forth herein.


5. DEFINITIONS

“Contribution” refers to any work of authorship, including the original version of the
Software and any Modifications of the Software that is intentionally submitted to Licensor
for inclusion in the Software by the copyright owner or by an individual or entity
authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this
definition, “submitted” means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication
sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on
electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are
managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the
Software, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated
in writing by the copyright owner as “Not a Contribution.”

“Contributor” refers to Licensor and any individual or entity on behalf of whom a
Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the
Software.

“Data” refers to a collection of information extracted from the dataset used with the
Model, including to train, pretrain, or otherwise evaluate the Model. The Data is not
licensed under this License Agreement.

“Explanatory Documentation” refers to any documentation or related information including
but not limited to model cards or data cards dedicated to inform the public about the
characteristics of the Software. Explanatory documentation is not licensed under this
License.

"License Agreement" refers to these terms and conditions.

“Licensor” refers to the rights owners or entity authorized by the rights owners that are
granting the terms and conditions of this License Agreement.

“Model” refers to machine-learning based assemblies (including checkpoints), consisting of
learnt weights and parameters (including optimizer states), corresponding to a model
architecture as embodied in Software source code. Source code is not licensed under this
License Agreement.

“Modifications of the Software” refers to all changes to the Software, including without
limitation derivative works of the Software.

“Output” refers to the results of operating the Software.

“Share” refers to any transmission, reproduction, publication or other sharing of the
Software or Modifications of the Software to a third party, including providing the
Softwaire as a hosted service made available by electronic or other remote means,
including - but not limited to - API-based or web access.

“Software” refers to the software and Model (or parts of either) that Licensor makes
available under this License Agreement.

“Third Parties” refers to individuals or legal entities that are not under common control
with Licensor or You.

“Use” refers to anything You or your representatives do with the Software, including but
not limited to generating any Output, fine tuning, updating, running, training, evaluating
and/or reparametrizing the Model.

"You" (or "Your")  refers to an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted
by this License Agreement and/or making Use of the Software for whichever purpose and in
any field of Use.
