docs/source/guides/cache_system.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Neuron Model Cache

## Why Use the Cache?

**Problem**: Neuron compilation takes 30-60 minutes for large models  
**Solution**: Download pre-compiled models in seconds

The cache system stores compiled Neuron models on HuggingFace Hub, eliminating recompilation time for your team. When you train or load a model, the system automatically checks for cached versions before starting the expensive compilation process.

**Key Benefits:**
- **Time savings**: Download compiled models in seconds vs. hours of compilation
- **Team collaboration**: Share compiled models across team members and instances
- **Cost reduction**: Avoid repeated compilation costs on cloud instances
- **Automatic operation**: Works transparently with existing code

## Quick Start

### Training (Trainium)
```python
from optimum.neuron import NeuronTrainer

# Cache works automatically - no configuration needed
trainer = NeuronTrainer(model=model, args=training_args)
trainer.train()  # Downloads cached models if available
```

### Inference (Inferentia/Trainium)
```python
from optimum.neuron import NeuronModelForCausalLM

# Cache works automatically 
model = NeuronModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("model_id")
```

That's it! The cache works automatically for supported model classes.

## How It Works

The cache system operates on two levels to minimize compilation time:

**Cache Priority** (fastest to slowest):
1. **Local cache** → Instant access from `/var/tmp/neuron-compile-cache`
2. **Hub cache** → Download in seconds from HuggingFace Hub
3. **Compile from scratch** → 30-60 minutes for large models

**What Gets Cached**: The system caches **NEFF files** (Neuron Executable File Format) - the compiled binary artifacts that run on Neuron cores, not the original model files.

**Cache Identification**: Each cached compilation gets a unique hash based on:
- **Model factors**: Architecture, precision (fp16/bf16), input shapes, task type
- **Compilation factors**: NeuronX compiler version, number of cores, optimization flags
- **Environment factors**: Model checkpoint revision, Optimum Neuron version

This means even small changes to your setup may require recompilation, but identical configurations will always hit the cache.

## Supported Models

| Model Class | Cache Support | Platform | Notes |
|-------------|---------------|----------|-------|
| `NeuronTrainer` | ✅ Full | Trainium | Auto download + upload during training |
| `NeuronModelForCausalLM` | ✅ Full | Both | Auto download for inference |
| Other `NeuronModelForXXX` | ❌ None | Both | Use different export mechanism, no cache integration |

**Note**: Models like `NeuronModelForSequenceClassification`, `NeuronModelForQuestionAnswering`, etc. use a different compilation path that doesn't integrate with the cache system. Only `NeuronModelForCausalLM` and training workflows support caching.

## Private Cache Setup

The default public cache (`aws-neuron/optimum-neuron-cache`) is read-only for users and only contains models compiled by the Optimum team. For most use cases, you'll want a private cache repository.

**Why private cache?**
- **Upload your compilations**: Store models you compile for team reuse
- **Private models**: Keep proprietary model compilations secure  
- **Team collaboration**: Share compiled artifacts across team members and CI/CD
- **Custom configurations**: Cache models with your specific batch sizes, sequence lengths, etc.

### Method 1: CLI Setup (Recommended)

```bash
# Create private cache repository
optimum-cli neuron cache create

# Set as default cache
optimum-cli neuron cache set your-org/your-cache-name
```

### Method 2: Environment Variable

```bash
# Use for single training run
CUSTOM_CACHE_REPO="your-org/your-cache" python train.py

# Or export for session
export CUSTOM_CACHE_REPO="your-org/your-cache"
```

**Prerequisites:**
- Login: `huggingface-cli login`
- Write access to cache repository

## CLI Commands

```bash
# Create new cache repository
optimum-cli neuron cache create [-n NAME] [--public]

# Set default cache repository  
optimum-cli neuron cache set REPO_NAME

# Search for cached models (Inferentia)
optimum-cli neuron cache lookup MODEL_ID

# Sync local cache with Hub
optimum-cli neuron cache synchronize
```

## Advanced Usage

### Manual Cache Control
```python
from optimum.neuron.cache import hub_neuronx_cache, synchronize_hub_cache
from optimum.neuron.cache.entries import SingleModelCacheEntry
from optimum.neuron.cache.training import patch_neuron_cc_wrapper

# Create cache entry
cache_entry = SingleModelCacheEntry(model_id, task, config, neuron_config)

# The NeuronX compiler will use the Hugging Face Hub cache system
with patch_neuron_cc_wrapper():
    # The compiler will check the specified remote cache for pre-compiled NEFF files
    with hub_neuronx_cache(entry=cache_entry, cache_repo_id="my-org/cache"):
        model = training_loop()  # Will use specified cache

# Synchronize local cache with Hub
synchronize_hub_cache(cache_repo_id="my-org/cache")
```

### Cache Lookup (Inferentia)

The inference cache includes a **registry** that lets you search for compatible pre-compiled models before attempting compilation. This is especially useful on Inferentia where you want to avoid compilation altogether.

```bash
optimum-cli neuron cache lookup meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf
```

Example output:
```
*** 1 entries found in cache ***
task: text-generation
batch_size: 1, sequence_length: 2048
num_cores: 24, precision: fp16
compiler_version: 2.12.54.0
checkpoint_revision: c1b0db933684edbfe29a06fa47eb19cc48025e93
```

**Important**: Finding entries doesn't guarantee cache hits. Your exact configuration must match the cached parameters, including compiler version and model revision.

## Troubleshooting

### "Cache repository does not exist"
```
Fix: Check repository name and login status
→ huggingface-cli login
→ Verify repo format: org/repo-name
```

### "Graph will be recompiled" 
```
Cause: No cached model matches your exact configuration
Fix: Use lookup to find compatible configurations
→ optimum-cli neuron cache lookup MODEL_ID
```

### Cache not uploading during training
```
Cause: No write permissions to cache repository  
Fix: Verify access and authentication
→ huggingface-cli whoami
→ Check cache repo permissions
```

### Slow downloads
```
Cause: Large compiled models (GBs) downloading
Fix: Ensure good internet connection
→ Monitor logs for download progress
```

### Clear corrupted local cache
```bash
rm -rf /var/tmp/neuron-compile-cache/*
```

## Cache Types

### Training Cache (Trainium)
- **Runtime caching**: Compiled graphs are automatically cached as they're generated during training
- **Auto upload**: New compilations are uploaded to your cache repository during training
- **Private repos**: Supports team-specific caches for collaboration
- **Context managers**: Uses `hub_neuronx_cache` to patch the compiler transparently

### Inference Cache (Inferentia) 
- **Pre-compiled lookup**: Search a registry of cached model configurations before compilation
- **Public cache only**: Read-only access to the shared public cache (`aws-neuron/optimum-neuron-cache`)
- **Registry search**: Use `optimum-cli neuron cache lookup` to find compatible models
- **NeuronModelForCausalLM integration**: Automatically downloads cached models if available

### Traced Model Cache (Both platforms)
- **Manual workflow**: You explicitly cache compiled artifacts after tracing models
- **Ahead-of-time (AOT) compilation**: Pre-compile models once, deploy everywhere
- **Cross-platform**: Works on both Trainium and Inferentia
- **Production ready**: Good for deployment scenarios where compilation time must be eliminated

## Best Practices

### Configuration Management
✅ **Use consistent configurations** across your team to maximize cache hits  
✅ **Standardize parameters** like batch size, sequence length, and precision  
✅ **Document your configurations** so team members use compatible settings  
✅ **Pin compiler versions** in CI/CD to ensure consistent cache behavior  

### Cache Operations
✅ **Create private cache** for your organization to store your compilations  
✅ **Check cache hits** in logs (look for "Fetched cached" messages)  
✅ **Monitor cache repository size** as NEFF files can be large (GBs)  
✅ **Use lookup before compiling** to find compatible cached models  

### Common Pitfalls
❌ **Don't** frequently change compilation parameters without good reason  
❌ **Don't** skip authentication setup (`huggingface-cli login`)  
❌ **Don't** ignore "recompiling" warnings - investigate why cache missed  
❌ **Don't** assume cache hits - always verify with logs or lookup commands

Commit message:

docs: remove Best Practices section as it was not making too much sense

docs/source/guides/cache_system.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Neuron Model Cache

## Why Use the Cache?

**Problem**: Neuron compilation takes 30-60 minutes for large models  
**Solution**: Download pre-compiled models in seconds

The cache system stores compiled Neuron models on HuggingFace Hub, eliminating recompilation time for your team. When you train or load a model, the system automatically checks for cached versions before starting the expensive compilation process.

**Key Benefits:**
- **Time savings**: Download compiled models in seconds vs. hours of compilation
- **Team collaboration**: Share compiled models across team members and instances
- **Cost reduction**: Avoid repeated compilation costs on cloud instances
- **Automatic operation**: Works transparently with existing code

## Quick Start

### Training (Trainium)
```python
from optimum.neuron import NeuronTrainer

# Cache works automatically - no configuration needed
trainer = NeuronTrainer(model=model, args=training_args)
trainer.train()  # Downloads cached models if available
```

### Inference (Inferentia/Trainium)
```python
from optimum.neuron import NeuronModelForCausalLM

# Cache works automatically 
model = NeuronModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("model_id")
```

That's it! The cache works automatically for supported model classes.

## How It Works

The cache system operates on two levels to minimize compilation time:

**Cache Priority** (fastest to slowest):
1. **Local cache** → Instant access from `/var/tmp/neuron-compile-cache`
2. **Hub cache** → Download in seconds from HuggingFace Hub
3. **Compile from scratch** → 30-60 minutes for large models

**What Gets Cached**: The system caches **NEFF files** (Neuron Executable File Format) - the compiled binary artifacts that run on Neuron cores, not the original model files.

**Cache Identification**: Each cached compilation gets a unique hash based on:
- **Model factors**: Architecture, precision (fp16/bf16), input shapes, task type
- **Compilation factors**: NeuronX compiler version, number of cores, optimization flags
- **Environment factors**: Model checkpoint revision, Optimum Neuron version

This means even small changes to your setup may require recompilation, but identical configurations will always hit the cache.

## Supported Models

| Model Class | Cache Support | Platform | Notes |
|-------------|---------------|----------|-------|
| `NeuronTrainer` | ✅ Full | Trainium | Auto download + upload during training |
| `NeuronModelForCausalLM` | ✅ Full | Both | Auto download for inference |
| Other `NeuronModelForXXX` | ❌ None | Both | Use different export mechanism, no cache integration |

**Note**: Models like `NeuronModelForSequenceClassification`, `NeuronModelForQuestionAnswering`, etc. use a different compilation path that doesn't integrate with the cache system. Only `NeuronModelForCausalLM` and training workflows support caching.

## Private Cache Setup

The default public cache (`aws-neuron/optimum-neuron-cache`) is read-only for users and only contains models compiled by the Optimum team. For most use cases, you'll want a private cache repository.

**Why private cache?**
- **Upload your compilations**: Store models you compile for team reuse
- **Private models**: Keep proprietary model compilations secure  
- **Team collaboration**: Share compiled artifacts across team members and CI/CD
- **Custom configurations**: Cache models with your specific batch sizes, sequence lengths, etc.

### Method 1: CLI Setup (Recommended)

```bash
# Create private cache repository
optimum-cli neuron cache create

# Set as default cache
optimum-cli neuron cache set your-org/your-cache-name
```

### Method 2: Environment Variable

```bash
# Use for single training run
CUSTOM_CACHE_REPO="your-org/your-cache" python train.py

# Or export for session
export CUSTOM_CACHE_REPO="your-org/your-cache"
```

**Prerequisites:**
- Login: `huggingface-cli login`
- Write access to cache repository

## CLI Commands

```bash
# Create new cache repository
optimum-cli neuron cache create [-n NAME] [--public]

# Set default cache repository  
optimum-cli neuron cache set REPO_NAME

# Search for cached models (Inferentia)
optimum-cli neuron cache lookup MODEL_ID

# Sync local cache with Hub
optimum-cli neuron cache synchronize
```

## Advanced Usage

### Use the Cache in Training Loops (Trainium)

If you do not use the `NeuronTrainer` class, you can still leverage the cache system in your custom training loops. This allows you to compile models and automatically upload them to your private cache repository.

```python
from optimum.neuron.cache import hub_neuronx_cache, synchronize_hub_cache
from optimum.neuron.cache.entries import SingleModelCacheEntry
from optimum.neuron.cache.training import patch_neuron_cc_wrapper

# Create cache entry
cache_entry = SingleModelCacheEntry(model_id, task, config, neuron_config)

# The NeuronX compiler will use the Hugging Face Hub cache system
with patch_neuron_cc_wrapper():
    # The compiler will check the specified remote cache for pre-compiled NEFF files
    with hub_neuronx_cache(entry=cache_entry, cache_repo_id="my-org/cache"):
        model = training_loop()  # Will use specified cache

# Synchronize local cache with Hub
synchronize_hub_cache(cache_repo_id="my-org/cache")
```

### Cache Lookup (Inferentia)

The inference cache includes a **registry** that lets you search for compatible pre-compiled models before attempting compilation. This is especially useful on Inferentia where you want to avoid compilation altogether.

```bash
optimum-cli neuron cache lookup meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf
```

Example output:
```
*** 1 entries found in cache ***
task: text-generation
batch_size: 1, sequence_length: 2048
num_cores: 24, precision: fp16
compiler_version: 2.12.54.0
checkpoint_revision: c1b0db933684edbfe29a06fa47eb19cc48025e93
```

**Important**: Finding entries doesn't guarantee cache hits. Your exact configuration must match the cached parameters, including compiler version and model revision.

## Troubleshooting

### "Cache repository does not exist"
```txt
Fix: Check repository name and login status
→ huggingface-cli login
→ Verify repo format: org/repo-name
```

### "Graph will be recompiled" 
```txt
Cause: No cached model matches your exact configuration
Fix: Use lookup to find compatible configurations
→ optimum-cli neuron cache lookup MODEL_ID
```

### Cache not uploading during training
```txt
Cause: No write permissions to cache repository  
Fix: Verify access and authentication
→ huggingface-cli whoami
→ Check cache repo permissions
```

### Slow downloads

```txt
Cause: Large compiled models (GBs) downloading
Fix: Ensure good internet connection
→ Monitor logs for download progress
```

### Clear corrupted local cache
```bash
rm -rf /var/tmp/neuron-compile-cache/*
```

## Cache Types

### Training Cache (Trainium)
- **Runtime caching**: Compiled graphs are automatically cached as they're generated during training
- **Auto upload**: New compilations are uploaded to your cache repository during training
- **Private repos**: Supports team-specific caches for collaboration
- **Context managers**: Uses `hub_neuronx_cache` to patch the compiler transparently

### Inference Cache (Inferentia) 
- **Pre-compiled lookup**: Search a registry of cached model configurations before compilation
- **Public cache only**: Read-only access to the shared public cache (`aws-neuron/optimum-neuron-cache`)
- **Registry search**: Use `optimum-cli neuron cache lookup` to find compatible models
- **NeuronModelForCausalLM integration**: Automatically downloads cached models if available

### Traced Model Cache (Both platforms)
- **Manual workflow**: You explicitly cache compiled artifacts after tracing models
- **Ahead-of-time (AOT) compilation**: Pre-compile models once, deploy everywhere
- **Cross-platform**: Works on both Trainium and Inferentia
- **Production ready**: Good for deployment scenarios where compilation time must be eliminated
