docs/source/model_doc/diffusers/flux.mdx, before:

<!---
Copyright 2025 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Flux

Flux is a series of text-to-image generation models based on diffusion transformers.

> [!TIP]
> We recommend using a `inf2.24xlarge` instance with tensor parallel size 8 for the model compilation and inference.

### Export to Neuron

* Option 1: CLI

```bash
optimum-cli export neuron --model black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev --tensor_parallel_size 8 --batch_size 1 --height 1024 --width 1024 --num_images_per_prompt 1 --torch_dtype bfloat16 flux_dev_neuron/
```

* Option 2: Python API

```python
from optimum.neuron import NeuronFluxPipeline

if __name__ == "__main__":
    compiler_args = {"auto_cast": "none"}
    input_shapes = {"batch_size": 1, "height": 1024, "width": 1024}

    pipe = NeuronFluxPipeline.from_pretrained(
        "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
        torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16,
        export=True,
        tensor_parallel_size=8,
        **compiler_args,
        **input_shapes
    )

    # Save locally
    pipe.save_pretrained("flux_dev_neuron_1024_tp8/")

    # Upload to the HuggingFace Hub
    pipe.push_to_hub(
        "flux_dev_neuron_1024_tp8/", repository_id="Jingya/FLUX.1-dev-neuronx-1024x1024-tp8"  # Replace with your HF Hub repo id
    )
```

## Guidance-distilled

* The guidance-distilled variant takes about 50 sampling steps for good-quality generation.

```python
from optimum.neuron import NeuronFluxPipeline

pipe = NeuronFluxPipeline.from_pretrained("flux_dev_neuron_1024_tp8/")
prompt = "A cat holding a sign that says hello world"
out = pipe(
    prompt,
    guidance_scale=3.5,
    num_inference_steps=50,
    generator=torch.Generator("cpu").manual_seed(0)
).images[0]
out.save("flux_optimum.png")
```

<img
  src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/Jingya/document_images/resolve/main/optimum/neuron/flux_optimum.png"
  width="256"
  height="256"
  alt="Flux dev generated image."
/>

## Timestep-distilled

* max_sequence_length cannot be more than 256.
* guidance_scale needs to be 0.
* As this is a timestep-distilled model, it benefits from fewer sampling steps.

```bash
optimum-cli export neuron --model black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-schnell --tensor_parallel_size 8 --batch_size 1 --height 1024 --width 1024 --num_images_per_prompt 1 --sequence_length 256 --torch_dtype bfloat16 flux_schnell_neuron_1024_tp8/
```

```python
import torch
from optimum.neuron import NeuronFluxPipeline

pipe = NeuronFluxPipeline.from_pretrained("flux_schnell_neuron_1024_tp8")
prompt = "A cat holding a sign that says hello world"
out = pipe(prompt, max_sequence_length=256, num_inference_steps=4).images[0]
```

<img
  src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/Jingya/document_images/resolve/main/optimum/neuron/flux_schnell_optimum.png"
  width="256"
  height="256"
  alt="Flux schnell generated image."
/>

## NeuronFluxPipeline

The Flux pipeline for text-to-image generation.

[[autodoc]] modeling_diffusion.NeuronFluxPipeline
    - __call__

## NeuronFluxInpaintPipeline

The Flux pipeline for image inpainting.

[[autodoc]] modeling_diffusion.NeuronFluxInpaintPipeline
    - __call__

With `NeuronFluxInpaintPipeline`, pass the original image and a mask of what you want to replace in the original image. Then replace the masked area with content described in a prompt.

```python
from diffusers.utils import load_image
from optimum.neuron import NeuronFluxInpaintPipeline


pipe = NeuronFluxInpaintPipeline.from_pretrained("Jingya/Flux.1-Schnell-1024x1024-neuronx-tp8")
prompt = "Face of a yellow cat, high resolution, sitting on a park bench"
img_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/latent-diffusion/main/data/inpainting_examples/overture-creations-5sI6fQgYIuo.png"
mask_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/latent-diffusion/main/data/inpainting_examples/overture-creations-5sI6fQgYIuo_mask.png"
source = load_image(img_url)
mask = load_image(mask_url)
images = pipe(prompt=prompt, image=source, mask_image=mask, max_sequence_length=256)
```

Are there any other diffusion features that you want us to support in 🤗`Optimum-neuron`? Please file an issue to [`Optimum-neuron` Github repo](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-neuron) or discuss with us on [HuggingFace’s community forum](https://discuss.huggingface.co/c/optimum/), cheers 🤗 !

Commit message:

feat: Support flux kontext for text2img (#916)
# What does this PR do?

This PR will allow Flux Kontext to be used for text2img by building upon
the newly added Flux support here:
https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-neuron/pull/815

Note: This depends on `diffusers >0.34` and the following PR to be
merged https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/pull/11985

@tengomucho @JingyaHuang

---------

Co-authored-by: JingyaHuang <huang_jingya@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: Jingya HUANG <44135271+JingyaHuang@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/model_doc/diffusers/flux.mdx, after:

<!---
Copyright 2025 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Flux

Flux is a series of text-to-image generation models based on diffusion transformers.

> [!TIP]
> We recommend using a `inf2.24xlarge` instance with tensor parallel size 8 for the model compilation and inference.

### Export to Neuron

* Option 1: CLI

```bash
optimum-cli export neuron --model black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev --tensor_parallel_size 8 --batch_size 1 --height 1024 --width 1024 --num_images_per_prompt 1 --torch_dtype bfloat16 flux_dev_neuron/
```

* Option 2: Python API

```python
from optimum.neuron import NeuronFluxPipeline

if __name__ == "__main__":
    compiler_args = {"auto_cast": "none"}
    input_shapes = {"batch_size": 1, "height": 1024, "width": 1024}

    pipe = NeuronFluxPipeline.from_pretrained(
        "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
        torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16,
        export=True,
        tensor_parallel_size=8,
        **compiler_args,
        **input_shapes
    )

    # Save locally
    pipe.save_pretrained("flux_dev_neuron_1024_tp8/")

    # Upload to the HuggingFace Hub
    pipe.push_to_hub(
        "flux_dev_neuron_1024_tp8/", repository_id="Jingya/FLUX.1-dev-neuronx-1024x1024-tp8"  # Replace with your HF Hub repo id
    )
```

## Guidance-distilled

* The guidance-distilled variant takes about 50 sampling steps for good-quality generation.

```python
from optimum.neuron import NeuronFluxPipeline

pipe = NeuronFluxPipeline.from_pretrained("flux_dev_neuron_1024_tp8/")
prompt = "A cat holding a sign that says hello world"
out = pipe(
    prompt,
    guidance_scale=3.5,
    num_inference_steps=50,
    generator=torch.Generator("cpu").manual_seed(0)
).images[0]
out.save("flux_optimum.png")
```

<img
  src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/Jingya/document_images/resolve/main/optimum/neuron/flux_optimum.png"
  width="256"
  height="256"
  alt="Flux dev generated image."
/>

## Timestep-distilled

* max_sequence_length cannot be more than 256.
* guidance_scale needs to be 0.
* As this is a timestep-distilled model, it benefits from fewer sampling steps.

```bash
optimum-cli export neuron --model black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-schnell --tensor_parallel_size 8 --batch_size 1 --height 1024 --width 1024 --num_images_per_prompt 1 --sequence_length 256 --torch_dtype bfloat16 flux_schnell_neuron_1024_tp8/
```

```python
import torch
from optimum.neuron import NeuronFluxPipeline

pipe = NeuronFluxPipeline.from_pretrained("flux_schnell_neuron_1024_tp8")
prompt = "A cat holding a sign that says hello world"
out = pipe(prompt, max_sequence_length=256, num_inference_steps=4).images[0]
```

<img
  src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/Jingya/document_images/resolve/main/optimum/neuron/flux_schnell_optimum.png"
  width="256"
  height="256"
  alt="Flux schnell generated image."
/>

## NeuronFluxPipeline

The Flux pipeline for text-to-image generation.

[[autodoc]] modeling_diffusion.NeuronFluxPipeline
    - __call__

## NeuronFluxInpaintPipeline

The Flux pipeline for image inpainting.

[[autodoc]] modeling_diffusion.NeuronFluxInpaintPipeline
    - __call__

With `NeuronFluxInpaintPipeline`, pass the original image and a mask of what you want to replace in the original image. Then replace the masked area with content described in a prompt.

```python
from diffusers.utils import load_image
from optimum.neuron import NeuronFluxInpaintPipeline


pipe = NeuronFluxInpaintPipeline.from_pretrained("Jingya/Flux.1-Schnell-1024x1024-neuronx-tp8")
prompt = "Face of a yellow cat, high resolution, sitting on a park bench"
img_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/latent-diffusion/main/data/inpainting_examples/overture-creations-5sI6fQgYIuo.png"
mask_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/latent-diffusion/main/data/inpainting_examples/overture-creations-5sI6fQgYIuo_mask.png"
source = load_image(img_url)
mask = load_image(mask_url)
images = pipe(prompt=prompt, image=source, mask_image=mask, max_sequence_length=256)
```

## NeuronFluxKontextPipeline

The Flux pipeline for image editing.

[[autodoc]] modeling_diffusion.NeuronFluxKontextPipeline
    - __call__

With `NeuronFluxKontextPipeline`, pass the original image and a prompt describing what you want to change about the original image.

```python
from diffusers.utils import load_image
from optimum.neuron import NeuronFluxKontextPipeline


pipe = NeuronFluxKontextPipeline.from_pretrained("Jlonge4/FLUX.1-kontext-neuronx-1024x1024-tp8")
prompt = "Change the cushions in the chair from red to green"
img_url = "https://huggingface.co/datasets/Jlonge4/document_images/resolve/main/flux_optimum.png"
source = load_image(img_url)
images = pipe(prompt=prompt, image=source, guidance_scale=2.5)
```

| Image | Prompt | Output |
|:-----:|:------:|:------:|
| <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/Jlonge4/document_images/resolve/main/flux_optimum.png" alt="red_cushions" width="250"/> | ***Change the cushions in the chair from red to green*** | <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/Jlonge4/document_images/resolve/main/flux_optimum_edit.png" alt="green_cushions" width="250"/> |

Are there any other diffusion features that you want us to support in 🤗`Optimum-neuron`? Please file an issue to [`Optimum-neuron` Github repo](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-neuron) or discuss with us on [HuggingFace’s community forum](https://discuss.huggingface.co/c/optimum/), cheers 🤗 !
